# What is ZetaChain?

ZetaChain is the foundational, public blockchain that enables omnichain smart
contracts and messaging between any blockchain. It solves the problems of
“cross-chain” and “multi-chain” and aims to open the crypto and global financial
ecosystem to anyone. ZetaChain envisions and supports a truly fluid, multi-chain
crypto ecosystem, where users and developers can move between and appreciate the
benefits of any blockchain: payments, DeFi, liquidity, games, art, social
graphs, performance, security, privacy, and more. As the first Universal EVM,
ZetaChain abstracts chains, assets, and data, orchestrating them to offer a
seamless and comprehensive user experience across all connected networks.

View the whitepaper [here](https://zetachain.com/whitepaper.pdf) for a closer
look at ZetaChain's background and architecture.

## Key Features

### Chain Abstraction Framework

ZetaChain is a decentralized and public blockchain network. It is built on
Cosmos SDK and Comet BFT consensus. The unique feature of ZetaChain is the Chain
Abstraction Framework (CAF), which enables omnichain connectivity of the network
to any blockchain. This framework is accessible through the Universal EVM, which
is a synchronous environment that can be called from any chain, manage native
assets on any chain, and access asynchronous arbitrary messaging to call
contracts on other chains. Developing with the CAF offers the ability to build
robust state management combined with multi-leg, multi-chain apps' needs, all in
the familiar EVM development environment. The resulting user experience is
unbounded, where the majority of apps can be used entirely from any single
network while the rest of the app logic can be affordably, securely, and
performantly abstracted.

### Hyper-connected nodes

ZetaChain's nodes have observers that monitor transactions on every connected
chain. Through ZetaChain's TSS architecture, the network can sign and verify
transactions on every connected chain. By being able to read and write to
connected chains in a secure, decentralized manner, these hyper-connected nodes
provide a seamless Chain Abstraction Framework for developers to build novel and
powerful cross-chain applications.

### Omnichain smart contracts

Smart contracts deployed natively on ZetaChain can read/write to connected
chains. ZetaChain is the only public blockchain to support smart contracts with
this capability, enabling a new paradigm of app development.

### Cross-chain message passing

A developer can pass messages (data and value) between chains and layers with
simple function calls. Through message passing, a dApp developer can build
powerful cross-chain applications by simply implementing a few functions within
their existing smart contracts.

By composing messaging capabilities with Omnichain Smart Contracts, apps can
abstract multi-leg cross-chain transactions in tandem with native asset
movements and interactions. For example, a contract on ZetaChain could be called
by a user on Bitcoin and also enact external contract calls on Ethereum and BNB
Chain, and more legs thereafter — all in just one step for the user.

Learn how to build dApps using ZetaChain's Connector
[here](/developers/cross-chain-messaging/connector).

### Managed external assets

ZetaChain's network and dApps built on top of ZetaChain can manage assets and
vaults of externally connected chains. This allows assets on any chain to be
managed just as a smart contract on a single chain can manage assets on its
respective chain. A dApp on ZetaChain can thus orchestrate and bring smart
contract logic to any connected chain. This property applies to all chains,
including non-smart-contract chains, like Bitcoin and Dogecoin.
