---
title: Gas Fees
---

import { Fees } from "~/components/Docs";

import { Alert } from "~/components/shared";

## Overview

When interacting with smart contracts on ZetaChain, users need to include a fee
for gas for each transaction.

The gas market mechanism for smart contracts on ZetaChain's EVM is similar to
that of [Ethermint](https://docs.ethermint.zone/basics/gas.html) and follows
Ethereum's EIP 1559 gas fee structure. This system is designed to deter spamming
activities on the network.

## Omnichain Contract Fees

### Deposit

When depositing tokens to ZetaChain by sending them to the TSS (Threshold
Signature Scheme) address on a connected chain, you will pay the fee in the
native gas token of that chain, similar to a standard transaction.

For example, if you are depositing ETH from Ethereum to ZetaChain, the fee will
be in ETH, comparable to a regular token transfer on the Ethereum network. For
more information on Ethereum gas and fees, refer to the [official
documentation](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/gas/).

### Withdraw

When withdrawing ZRC-20 tokens back to a connected external chain, the "withdraw
gas fee" is applicable (listed as "Total fee" in the table below).

To find out the fee amount, call the `withdrawGasFee` function on the [ZRC-20
contract](https://github.com/zeta-chain/protocol-contracts/blob/main/contracts/zevm/ZRC20.sol)
for the token you wish to withdraw. This function will return the fee in the
native gas token of the connected chain.

The `withdraw` function will deduct this gas fee from your ZRC-20 balance and
proceed with the withdrawal to the destination chain.

### Current omnichain fees

In the table below you can see the current fees. The fees are defined in native
gas tokens on the destination chain (the chain to which ZRC-20 tokens are
withdrawn). The fees are calculated with the gas limit of 500000.

<Fees type="omnichain" />

To calculate fees for a different gas limit, please, check out the `fees`
command in the smart-contract
[template](https://github.com/zeta-chain/template):

```
npx hardhat fees
```

## Cross-Chain Messaging Fees

To send data and value across chains through ZetaChain, users (wallets,
contracts) must pay fees. These fees are paid by sending ZETA (along with the
message data) on a connected chain to a Connector contract. This ZETA is used to
compensate validators, stakers, and ecosystem pools, as well as to cover the gas
fees on the destination chain. For users, this process is simplified into a
single transaction.

When sending a cross-chain message, you incur two types of fees:

- Outbound Gas Fee: This fee is calculated dynamically based on the gas prices
  for the destination chain, the gas limit provided by the user, and the token
  prices in the liquidity pools on ZetaChain.
- Protocol Fee: This is a fixed value defined in the ZetaChain source code.

### Current Cross-Chain Messaging Fees

The table below shows the current cross-chain messaging fees, defined in ZETA
tokens. These fees are calculated for the destination chain (the chain to which
the message is sent) with a gas limit of 500,000.

<Fees type="messaging" />

To calculate fees for a different gas limit, use the fees command in the
smart-contract [template](https://github.com/zeta-chain/template):

```
npx hardhat fees
```

### Different Approaches to Paying the Fees

When you write a smart contract that uses cross chain messages this contract
needs to pay fees in ZETA for every cross chain transaction. There are several
ways to handle this.

#### Sending ZETA to the Connector

In your cross-chain messaging contract approve `zetaValueAndGas` amount of ZETA
tokens to the connector and then transfer them to the connector contract.

The main disadvantage with this approach is that the user must approve your
contract before and they have to have enough ZETA in his wallet.

```solidity
function sendMessage(uint256 destinationChainId, bytes calldata destinationAddress, uint256 zetaValueAndGas) external {
    if (zetaValueAndGas == 0) revert InvalidZetaValueAndGas();

    bool success1 = ZetaEth(zetaToken).approve(address(connector), zetaValueAndGas);
    bool success2 = ZetaEth(zetaToken).transferFrom(msg.sender, address(this), zetaValueAndGas);
    if (!(success1 && success2)) revert ErrorTransferringZeta();

    connector.send(
        ZetaInterfaces.SendInput({
            destinationChainId: destinationChainId,
            destinationAddress: destinationAddress,
            destinationGasLimit: 300000,
            message: abi.encode(),
            zetaValueAndGas: zetaValueAndGas,
            zetaParams: abi.encode("")
        })
    );
}
```

#### Pay With ZETA From the Contract

You can add ZETA tokens to the contract and the contract will use these tokens
when sending cross chain messages.

This is easier for end-users, because they don't have to think about using ZETA
tokens, but it's more complex for the contract developer because they have to
ensure that the contract has enough ZETA tokens.

```solidity
function sendMessage(uint256 destinationChainId, bytes calldata destinationAddress) external {
    bool success1 = ZetaEth(zetaToken).approve(address(connector), ZETA_GAS);
    if (!success1) revert ErrorApprovingZeta();

    connector.send(
        ZetaInterfaces.SendInput({
            destinationChainId: destinationChainId,
            destinationAddress: destinationAddress,
            destinationGasLimit: 300000,
            message: abi.encode(),
            zetaValueAndGas: ZETA_GAS,
            zetaParams: abi.encode("")
        })
    );
}
```

#### Pay With Any Token and Swap to ZETA

Your contract can accept any token and swap it to ZETA internally.

This approach is more complex, because you need to add a swap logic to your
contract and take market price fluctuations into account. But it's more
convenient for end-users, because they can use any token to pay for cross chain
messages without even knowing that ZETA is being used under the hood.

To make it eaier you can use ZetaConsumer's `getZetaFromEth` to swap any token
to ZETA.

```solidity
function sendMessage(uint256 destinationChainId, bytes calldata destinationAddress) external payable{
    uint256 crossChainGas = 2 * (10 ** 18);
    uint256 zetaValueAndGas = _zetaConsumer.getZetaFromEth{value: msg.value}(address(this), crossChainGas);
    bool success1 = ZetaEth(zetaToken).approve(address(connector), zetaValueAndGas);
    if (!success1) revert ErrorApprovingZeta();

    connector.send(
        ZetaInterfaces.SendInput({
            destinationChainId: destinationChainId,
            destinationAddress: destinationAddress,
            destinationGasLimit: 300000,
            message: abi.encode(),
            zetaValueAndGas: zetaValueAndGas,
            zetaParams: abi.encode("")
        })
    );
}
```

[ZetaTokenConsumer](https://github.com/zeta-chain/protocol-contracts/blob/main/contracts/evm/interfaces/ZetaInterfaces.sol)
is an interface with several implementations that handles all the logic you need
to swap ZETA from/to another token. Right now we have three implementations
([Uniswap
V2](https://github.com/zeta-chain/protocol-contracts/blob/main/contracts/evm/tools/ZetaTokenConsumerUniV2.strategy.sol),
[Uniswap
V3](https://github.com/zeta-chain/protocol-contracts/blob/main/contracts/evm/tools/ZetaTokenConsumerUniV3.strategy.sol),
and
[Trident](https://github.com/zeta-chain/protocol-contracts/blob/main/contracts/evm/tools/ZetaTokenConsumerTrident.strategy.sol))
using different DEX. You can include it in your contract and just call the
appropriate method.
