---
title: Architecture
---

import { Alert } from "~/components/shared";

## Overview

At a high level, ZetaChain is a Proof of Stake (PoS) blockchain built on the
Cosmos SDK and Comet BFT consensus engine. As a result, ZetaChain enjoys fast
block time (~5s) and instant finality (no confirmation needed, no
re-organization allowed). The Comet BFT consensus engine has shown to scale to
~300 nodes in production. With future upgrades with BLS threshold signatures the
number can potentially increase to 1000+. The throughput of transactions on
ZetaChain can potentially reach 100 transactions per second TPS due to the
efficiency of the consensus protocol.

The ZetaChain architecture consists of a distributed network of nodes, often
referred to as validators. Validators act as decentralized observers that reach
consensus on relevant connected chain state and events, and can also
update connected chain state via distributed key signing. ZetaChain accomplishes
these functions in a decentralized (without a single point of failure,
trustless, permissionless), transparent, and efficient way.

Contained within each validator is the ZetaCore and ZetaClient. ZetaCore is
responsible for producing the blockchain and maintaining the replicated state
machine. ZetaClient is responsible for observing events on connected chains and
signing outbound transactions.

ZetaCore and ZetaClient are bundled together and run by node operators. Anyone
can become a node operator to participate in validation provided that enough
bonds are staked.

![](/img/docs/architecture-1.png)

## Validators

Validators are comprised of 2 different roles: Core Validators and
Observer-Signer Validators. Fees from transactions and rewards are distributed
to validators in return for their service of processing transactions and keeping
the network secure.

### Core Validators

ZetaChain uses the Comet BFT consensus protocol which is a partially synchronous
Byzantine Fault Tolerant (BFT) consensus algorithm. Each validator node can vote
on block proposals with voting power proportional to the staking coins (ZETA), 
bonded/delegated. Each validator is identified by its consensus public key.
Validators need to be online all the time, ready to participate in the
constantly growing block production. In exchange for their service, validators
will receive block rewards and transaction fees.

### Observer-Signer Validators

Another set of important participants for ZetaChain consensus are the
observer-signer validators who reach consensus on connected chain events and
states. The observer-signers watch connected chains for certain relevant
transactions/events/states at particular addresses via their full nodes of
connected chains.

ZetaChain collectively holds standard ECDSA/EdDSA keys for authenticated
interaction with connected chains. The keys are distributed among multiple
observer-signers in such a way that only a super majority of them can sign on
behalf of the ZetaChain. The ZetaChain system uses bonded stakes and
positive/negative incentives to ensure economic safety.

<Alert>
  {" "}
  It's important to note that at no time is any single entity or small fraction of nodes able to sign messages on behalf
  of ZetaChain on connected chains.{" "}
</Alert>
