---
title: Pool ZETA
---

Liquidity pools on ZetaHub are pools of assets in Automated Market Maker (AMM)
decentralized exchanges (DEXs) that power ZetaChain and its omnichain
functionality. ZetaHub provides an interface to deposit assets into these pools,
allowing you to earn a share of the fees generated by the pools.

To get started, view the list of ZetaChain liquidity pools on the Pool page and
select one.

![](/img/docs/zetahub/pool-1.png)

Enter the amount for one token, and the equivalent amount for the other token
will be calculated automatically. You will see the number of liquidity pool (LP)
tokens you will receive based on your deposit.

On the right side of the interface, you can see an overview of the pool,
including details like Total Value Locked (TVL), pool fees, and transaction
volume.

To deposit into any ZetaChain pool, ensure you have a sufficient balance of both
respective assets on the ZetaChain network.

![](/img/docs/zetahub/pool-2.png)

If your balance is insufficient for any asset, click the “Get more assets”
button below the error message. This will guide you to a screen where you can
either send the asset to the ZetaChain network (if you have it on another
network) or purchase more of the asset through an exchange.

After entering the amounts, click "Allow deposit." You will need to confirm the
spending cap transactions in your wallet.

![](/img/docs/zetahub/pool-3.png)

Once the allowance is approved, click "Add to pool."

![](/img/docs/zetahub/pool-4.png)

Adding liquidity requires one final transaction. Confirm the liquidity pool
transaction in your wallet.

![](/img/docs/zetahub/pool-5.png)

Wait for the transaction to be processed on ZetaChain.

![](/img/docs/zetahub/pool-6.png)

After adding liquidity, you will see a confirmation window displaying the
deposited amounts and your positions in the pool. You can choose to deposit more
or return to the main pool page.

![](/img/docs/zetahub/pool-7.png)

From the main pool page, you can view all your pooled positions on ZetaHub on
the right side.

![](/img/docs/zetahub/pool-8.png)

To withdraw tokens from a pool, go to the pool details page, select the
"Withdraw" tab, enter the amount you wish to withdraw, approve the transaction,
and click on the "Withdraw" button.

![](/img/docs/zetahub/pool-8.png)

By following these steps, you can easily manage your liquidity on ZetaHub,
earning fees and maintaining control over your assets.
