---
sidebar_label: What is ZetaChain?
hide_title: true
title: What is ZetaChain?
sidebar_position: 1
---

# What is ZetaChain?

ZetaChain is the foundational, public blockchain that enables omnichain, generic
smart contracts and messaging between _any_ blockchain. It solves the problems
of “cross-chain” and “multi-chain” and aims to open the crypto and global
financial ecosystem to anyone. ZetaChain envisions and supports a truly fluid,
multi-chain crypto ecosystem, where users and developers can move between and
appreciate the benefits of any blockchain: payments, DeFi, liquidity, games,
art, social graphs, performance, security, privacy, and so on.

View the whitepaper [here](https://zetachain.com/whitepaper.pdf) for a closer
look at ZetaChain's background and architecture.

## Key features

### Decentralized and public

ZetaChain is a decentralized and public blockchain network. It is built on
Cosmos SDK and Tendermint Consensus. While many cross-chain solutions like
bridges have to vary, often centralized trust models that have a track record
for being susceptible to exploits and hacks, ZetaChain is a Proof-of-Stake
blockchain, where all transactions and activity on the platform -- even
cross-chain transactions -- are fully transparent, verifiable, and function in a
trust-minimized manner.

### Hyper-connected nodes

ZetaChain's nodes have observers that monitor transactions on every connected
chain. Through ZetaChain's TSS architecture, the network can sign and verify
transactions on every connected chain as a wallet can. By being able to read and
write to connected chains in a secure, decentralized manner, these
hyper-connected nodes provide a seamless omnichain environment for developers to
build novel and powerful cross-chain applications on top of.

### Omnichain smart contracts

Smart contracts can be deployed natively on ZetaChain that can read/write to
connected chains. ZetaChain is the only public blockchain to support smart
contracts with this capability, enabling a new paradigm of app development.

### Cross-chain message passing

A developer can pass messages (data and value) between chains and layers with
simple function calls. Through message passing, a dApp developer can build
powerful cross-chain applications by simply implementing a few functions within
their existing smart contracts.

Learn how to build dApps using ZetaChain's Connector
[here](/developers/cross-chain-messaging/connector).

### Managed external assets

ZetaChain's network and dApps built on top of ZetaChain can manage assets and
vaults of externally connected chains. This allows assets on any chain to be
managed just as a smart contract on a single chain can manage assets on its
respective chain. A dApp on ZetaChain can thus orchestrate and bring smart
contract logic to any connected chain. This property applies to all chains,
including non-smart-contract chains, like Bitcoin and Dogecoin.
